[blog]Getting Started with Meshery: A Guide for Platform Engineers (#6314)
layer5io/layer5: src/collections/blog/2025/03-14-Getting-started-with-Meshrey/aadityaa.mdx

---
title: "Getting Started with Meshery: A Guide for Platform Engineers"
date: 2025-03-14
author: Aditya Raj
thumbnail: ./aadi.png
darkthumbnail: ./aadi.png

> category: "Service Mesh"

Reviewer: We are not using 'Service Mesh' if I am correct.

Reviewer 2: What's with the image filename?

Reviewer 2: Why would this be under Service Mesh?

<h2>What is Meshery?</h2>

<p>Meshery is an open-source cloud-native management plane that enables platform engineers to efficiently manage and optimize their infrastructure. With seamless integration across 300+ cloud-native technologies, Meshery provides a unified interface for provisioning, configuring, and scaling infrastructure—all from a single dashboard.</p>

<p>By eliminating the need for multiple management tools, Meshery simplifies infrastructure operations, enhances scalability through automation, and ensures reliability with real-time monitoring and alerts. Whether managing container orchestration, observability, networking, or security, Meshery brings everything under one roof, enabling teams to streamline their workflows and drive efficiency.</p>

<p>Explore the full list of Meshery’s integrations <a href="https://meshery.io/integrations">here</a>.</p>

<h2>Setting Up Meshery: A Step-by-Step Guide</h2>

> <p>Getting started with Meshery is simpler than you might think. Follow this step-by-step guide to set it up and start managing your cloud-native infrastructure efficiently:</p>

Reviewer: This is rather a summary or a TL;DR of what a step-by-step guide would be. We should elaborate.

<ol>

>   <li><p><strong>Install Meshery:</strong> Visit the <a href="https://github.com/meshery/meshery">Meshery GitHub repository</a> and follow the installation steps for your preferred platform, such as Docker, Kubernetes, or Helm.</p></li>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  <li><p><strong>Install Meshery:</strong> Visit the <a href="https://docs.meshery.io/installation">Meshery Documentation page</a> and follow the installation steps for your preferred platform, such as Docker, Kubernetes, or Helm.</p></li>
```

  <li><p><strong>Configure Meshery:</strong> Set up Meshery to seamlessly connect with your existing infrastructure and cloud providers like AWS, GCP, or Azure.</p></li>

>   <li><p><strong>Explore the Dashboard:</strong> Get familiar with the Meshery dashboard, which provides an overview of your infrastructure, performance insights, and various integrations.</p></li>

Author: I will make the necessary changes soon. Thank you for your valuable insights @lekaf974 😇

</ol>

<h2>Automating Infrastructure with Meshery</h2>

<p>Once Meshery is set up, you can leverage its automation capabilities to optimize infrastructure management. Here are some of the key benefits:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Infrastructure Provisioning:</strong> Automate the provisioning and configuration of cloud resources, eliminating manual setup.</li>
  <li><strong>Multi-Technology Management:</strong> Manage and monitor various cloud-native technologies from a unified interface.</li>
  <li><strong>Scaling and Optimization:</strong> Automatically scale infrastructure based on demand and optimize resource utilization.</li>
</ul>

<h2>Real-World Benefits</h2>

<p>By integrating Meshery into your workflow, you can:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Reduce operational complexity by up to 70%</li>
  <li>Enhance scalability and reliability by up to 90%</li>
  <li>Lower infrastructure costs by up to 50% through efficient resource allocation</li>
</ul>

<h2>Conclusion</h2>

> <p>Meshery has evolved into a powerful cloud-native management plane, enabling platform engineers to streamline operations, automate infrastructure, and integrate with over 300+ cloud-native technologies. By following this guide, you can quickly get started with Meshery and unlock the benefits of an efficient and automated infrastructure. <a href="https://meshery.io/integrations">Join the Meshery community</a> today and take control of your cloud-native environment!</p>

Reviewer: Incorrect link here.

---
title: "Getting Started with Meshery: A Guide for Platform Engineers"
date: 2025-03-14
author: Aditya Raj
thumbnail: ./aadi.png
darkthumbnail: ./aadi.png
category: "Service Mesh"
description: "A guide to help platform engineers get started with Meshery for infrastructure automation"
tags:
  - Meshery
  - Service Mesh
  - Infrastructure Automation
  - Platform Engineering
type: Blog
featured: true
published: true
---
import { BlogWrapper } from "../../Blog.style.js";
import { Link } from "gatsby";

<BlogWrapper>

<h1>Getting Started with Meshery: A Guide for Platform Engineers</h1>

<p>As a platform engineer, you're no stranger to the complexities of managing infrastructure. From provisioning and configuring resources to ensuring scalability and reliability, your job is to keep the underlying systems running smoothly so that applications can thrive. That's where Meshery comes in – a powerful tool designed to simplify infrastructure automation and make your life easier.</p>

<h2>What is Meshery?</h2>

> <p>Meshery is an open-source, service mesh management plane that helps platform engineers like you manage the complexity of service meshes and their interactions with the underlying infrastructure. By providing a unified interface for managing multiple service meshes, Meshery enables you to automate infrastructure provisioning, configuration, and scaling – all from a single dashboard.</p>

Reviewer 4: Please don't mention the term `service mesh` anywhere when talking about Meshery.
The project has grown way beyond its initial focus and now integrates with more than 300+ cloud native technologies. https://meshery.io/integrations

Author: Okay, I'll gather more information right now and make the necessary changes today itself. Also, I’ll ensure not to mention the term "service mesh" ,as the project now integrates with over 300+ cloud-native technologies.

Author: Done 👍
